
The bot detects and translates chat messages of other languages into the target language set by the streamer in real-time. (changes implemented within last push new documentation will be released for new commands)


## Commands ##
(Commands are only permitted to the Streamer and Moderators)

* `!join [lang]` - Used only from twitch.tv/twitchtranslatorbot by the streamer to have the bot join the channel
* `!gpthelp`    - Prints out available commands for this Bot
* `!gptlang [code]` - Sets the target language for the channel using a language code (e.g. en for English)
* `!gptleave`   - Makes the Bot leave the channel
* `!gptlist`    - Prints a list of available languages for Translation
* `!gptcolor`   - Toggles the translated text color between normal chat and /me action.
* `!gptcensor`  - Toggles naughty word censorship.
* `!langpause`   - Pauses translation until command is entered again.
* `!gpt`         - Will query OPENAI with whatever you enter afterwards.
* `!gptpause`    - Will pause GPT querying to avoid abuse.
* `!gptcooldown` - Sets the cooldown of users gpt commands. 
* `!gptpersonas` - Displays a list of personalities that the bot can now have.
* `!gptshow`     - Shows the language that is being translated.
## Instructions ##

1. Install NodeJS - [https://nodejs.org/en/](https://nodejs.org/en/)
2. Open the directory in a Command Prompt/Terminal
3. Install Dependencies: `npm install`
4. Get a Twitch Chat OAuth Password Token - [here](http://twitchapps.com/tmi/)
5. Get an AZURE translate key
6. Edit the file named `.env`
7. You will need a Twitch app OAUTH and Client OAUTH token once can be generated from /TMI.
7. Run bot: `npm start` or `npm dev`
8. Browse to your bot's chat
9. Use the command `!join`
10. currently the environmental file is not setup correctly As Google cloud is now being used for translation instead of Azure.



Example .env

```env
TWITCHUSER=twitchtranslatorbot
OAUTH="Bearer Key" not generated by TMI must have quotes with Bearer infront
ClIENT_ID=thisisaclientid found from twitch dev dashboard
OAUTH_2=oauth:oauthkey

```


"Common Issues"
1.) Cannot connect to MangoDB instance - You may need to change the index.js in conmfydb module from Localhost to 127.0.0.1.
2.) Issue with reading map. -Verify that you have correctly entered in all .env variables You may have to enable logging commands to see what the API is returning.
3.) currently this bot misinterprets some words for other words in other languages due to it translating too many languages. This will not be fixed in this version of the bot and will be fixed when it is remade. 
